Add parameter sources custom extension (#365)
cnabio/cnab-spec: 810-well-known-custom-extensions.md

---
title: Well known custom extensions
weight: 810
---

> # Well known custom actions

Reviewer: Also actions => extensions 😄

> # Well known custom actions

Reviewer: It looks we don't currently hyphenate in https://github.com/cnabio/cnab-spec/blob/b5ed2f30bdc51fb9953fcd74d6b13d83c4165849/804-well-known-custom-actions.md#well-known-custom-actions

> # Well known custom actions

Author: I strongly prefer the hyphenated form. It bothered me as soon as I saw it, but I stuck with `well known` only because of precedent. Since I've got your "vote" too I'm going to use `well-known` here and we can change the other to use the hyphen in another PR.

This section is non-normative, but is here to propose a common set of custom extensions a bundle MAY define, and that CNAB tools MAY implement.

A bundle indicates that it uses a custom extension by including them in its custom section (as defined in [Custom Extensions](101-bundle-json.md#custom-extensions)).

## Dependencies

See the [Dependencies Specification](500-CNAB-dependencies.md).

## Parameter Sources

> A custom bundle extension, `io.cnab.parameterSources`, MAY be defined that provides additional guidance for how a runtime MAY determine the default value of a [parameter][parameter]. The parameter source extension does not cover how the runtime should set the value of a parameter because each implemenation may have different information to take into account when determining the final value of a parameter.

Reviewer: Nit: in [well-known-custom-actions](https://github.com/cnabio/cnab-spec/blob/b5ed2f30bdc51fb9953fcd74d6b13d83c4165849/804-well-known-custom-actions.md#well-known-custom-actions
) we appear to be using dasherized names, eg. `io.cnab.dry-run`.
```suggestion
A custom bundle extension, `io.cnab.parameter-sources`, MAY be defined that provides additional guidance for how a runtime MAY determine the default value of a [parameter][parameter]. The parameter source extension does not cover how the runtime should set the value of a parameter because each implementation may have different information to take into account when determining the final value of a parameter.
```

> A custom bundle extension, `io.cnab.parameterSources`, MAY be defined that provides additional guidance for how a runtime MAY determine the default value of a [parameter][parameter]. The parameter source extension does not cover how the runtime should set the value of a parameter because each implemenation may have different information to take into account when determining the final value of a parameter.

Reviewer: Would further specifying the invocation image and CNAB runtime behavior like this make sense?

The invocation image:
- SHOULD only use the `io.cnab.parameter-sources` extension with outputs that are generated by the `install` action
- MAY use the `io.cnab.parameter-sources` extension with outputs that are generated by `stateless: false` actions

A CNAB runtime implementing the `io.cnab.parameter-sources` extension:
- SHOULD error when an expected output is not generated by an invocation image
- MUST error when no output is available and the parameter is required
  - SHOULD allow users to specify parameter value manually in order to bypass this error

In the example below, the [output][output] `tfstate` is initially generated during the install action, and the required parameter `tfstate` is used by the upgrade and uninstall actions. The parameter source specifies that the `tfstate` output can be used to set the `tfstate` parameter. This enables a bundle to pass data, in this case state, between actions.

```json
{
  "custom": {
    "io.cnab.parameterSources": {
      "tfstate": {

>         "output": {

Reviewer: Yes, I think adding more parameter sources over time is something we should be ready to support. If we ever decide to allow multiple sources to be specified for the same parameter, it might be a good idea to go ahead and nest the source configurations themselves so that we have somewhere to put additional configuration like relative priority without this being a breaking change.

For example, this is what it might look like to define a parameter that can be sourced from an output, but also supports fallback to a default value referenced as OCI via [ORAS](https://github.com/deislabs/oras).

```json
{
  "custom": {
    "io.cnab.parameter-sources": {
      "myparam": {
        "priority": ["output", "oras"],
        "sources": {
          "oras": {
            "image": "myparam-default"
          },
          "output": {
            "name": "myoutput"
          }
        }
      }
    }
  },
  "images": {
    "myparam-default": {
      "description": "fallback value for myparam",
      "image": "registry.example.com/hello-artifact:v1",
      "contentDigest": "sha256:asdf..."
    }
  }
}
```
